Rates we're certain to read more more tests.
But up until now we've only worked with some simple components.
What if we want to work with something like a container that top dog uses We have all this maps state
to props.
It's also a connected component.
How do we test with that.
Let's give it a try.
I'm going to create a new file and call it aptitude test.
Yes.
And this aptitude test that yes again and we can't just go through the motions and copy one the last
tests.
Let's just do this and this time instead of conurbation it's going to be up.
And again we won't receive any colors.
Let's just run this and see what happens.
Oh actually.
Let me delete this as well.
Save.
All right.
I'm getting some errors.
It says expect to render app component which is over here but I'm getting an error saying that invariant
violation could not find store in either the context or prop's of connect app.
All right so let's just lock a store you can say Konst lock store equals say an empty object for now.
Or let's just do the robots of an empty array and let's do Sir's sure or a search field.
That is an empty string and we'll just pass this mock store
as the store proc
and whole Boy I'm getting stored get state is not a function.
And that makes sense right.
If you remember our store isn't just an empty object or a dummy object.
I mean it is an redox terms but it also came with all these other things that we didn't really think
about when we installed the.
We had get state subscribe and all these other methods that came with it.
So that means we have to mock this entire list of store methods that redux comes up with.
And if redux updates and add something new in the future we're going to have to update that as well.
And luckily for us there's tools that already do this for you.
For example there is a package called redux lock store that you can use to actually mock this store
and have these proper methods on it.
And that's an NPM package we can install.
But I want to take a different route.
I want to take a route of simplicity because right now looking at this app dot J.S. file We're doing
a lot of things and I like simple tests tests that test simple things.
And this app that is frankly a little bit complicated because we have this connect so it's technically
not even rendering the app it's rendering Canet.
And then that is ratbite.
Let me show you what I mean if I go back to our app and open up our re-act developer tools you might
have to download this plug and if you don't have it already I see that my app is a provider and then
a connect to app.
So this app what we're actually testing is this Kinect component that is wrapping the app and only inside
of it.
We have the app and then Hetter search box scroll and so on and so forth.
Let's simplify this.
Why not just test our app instead of testing are connected component.
And this is what I'd like to do when I test things instead of trying to test a really complicated component.
I ask myself is this component as simple as it can be is there better things that I can do with code
to make it more testable.
Which usually results in better code overall.
So looking at this this app component does two main things.
One it connects to the read box store.
Through all this maps say two props and map dispatched to props.
But it also renders a ton of the sinks.
So let's separate this out.
I'm going to create a new component file and call it main page digests so you can think of this as the
home page of our Robur friends up
and now this main page will also have a test file.
So I'm going to move the app.
Tested yes to actually be renamed to main page and put it into the components folder.
All right.
Our tests are failing but that's because we have our names all off.
So let's go about this step by step.
Let's make apt Rajai ass be worried about just connecting and receiving just receiving props from the
store and make our main page be concerned with rendering all this home page stuff.
So how can we do this.
Well the very first step is I'm going to copy the entire app dodgiest file go to our main page.
Copy and paste it.
And right off the bat remove all the redux things because I don't need anything redux.
This is going to be a simple component that's not connected to a redux store.
So I'm going to remove the Connect I'm going to remove any of the actions and just leave our components.
I'm going to remove the map state to prop's map dispatch to prop's and I'm going to rename this to main
page component and where you don't have a CSSA fall for it.
Or maybe we should move this app dodgiest to our main page.
So for now I'm just going to create something quickly.
I'm going to say new file main page dot C Ss and by the way you're start to see why we might want to
have a better folder structure than just files files files.
We might want to have components and a component folder for each one of these components.
And I'm just going to copy and paste here and going back to our main page.
We now have this DSS we have the
constructor and I don't know why we have our count in here.
I don't think we need the count now using it at all.
So let's just remove that.
So we don't need a constructor
and in our main page again there's no constructor we have the component did mount because while we want
to request robots and we have our regular render but we also don't have our connect anymore we're just
simply rendering our main page.
All right.
So we've removed this and made this into a simple app that still has the component did mount but that's
just prop's that we received from the store.
All right.
So let's go into APTA.
Yes and now remove the up part because we don't really need that anymore or we don't need the render
part we just need the connected component.
So again in here.
Now for our render all we really need to do is well remove all of this feels nice removing stuff and
making files smaller and all we need is the main page component to render.
Right.
So we remove all these component imports and just import the main page component
again.
Another reason I love react.
Everything is just so nice and simple to move components around.
But look what we've just done really really quickly.
Oh we definitely don't need component did mount because we're doing that in the main page.
So look how small that component just got how nice is that.
And now this app component just turned into a super simple container component.
And this is an architectural decision that I really really like because we don't really need to even
test this.
Do we.
Because all we're doing is just using the connect function to grab the state and dispatch events from
our redock store.
So even writing tests for this although we could do it we're just simply testing the functionality of
redux.
And that's something that redux library already does it already has tests and people working to make
sure that it works properly.
This component now becomes something so simple that we might not even need to test.
And we've moved all our logic that we can test to the main page component and that's something really
important to think about.
To always try and make your tests easy.
If they're not then perhaps there's something in your code that you can simplify Ngan see how elegant
of a solution this is.
The last thing we really want to do is just pass down these props down to the main page.
To do that we can just use some destructuring or object spread say this dot props.
Let's see if and actually haven't tested this code so make sure it still works.
Let's run NPM start.
Sure there's something that we may have missed.
Let's close this.
All right we have your render method should have a return statement and yep we need to actually return
from this render statement as silly of us Sless return.
And we have a bit of an issue with the CSSA and that is because it can't find the Segev font.
So that's a simple fix.
We just go to the well and do because the Segev font is in the containers.
We can just simply do containers for now even though we probably want to move this around for now for
demonstration purposes that's fine.
Everything is passing.
If I go back I see that there's a few other errors.
We have the count of Noal and we're passing the count state in here in the header component.
But if you remember our Hetter component has the counter-battery that actually has its own state.
So looks like we're doing this for no reason.
So let's just remove that from the whereas it from the main page.
Yes.
So we can just remove that save go back.
All right.
Everything is working make sure our searching works.
Yeah.
Everything is working count is working.
If I open up my re-act developer tools no not redux we want re-act we have the provider we have the
connected app.
But check this out.
We now have the main page that we can test and this main page now is more accessible for us using enzyme
than just.
So let's write some tests here.
We're going to go into the main page got tests.
All right let's first change the name to main page which is while we're testing now and because I feel
like we're going to be doing this a lot and passing down some props There's a neat little trick that
we can do let's say we're going to have a lot wrapper and I'm going to remove this for now.
And we can use something called before each again comes with just and other testing frameworks and this
make sure that it runs before each one of our tests.
Now in here we simply give it a function and inside of this function we can say what should run before
each one of our tests.
In our case we want to mock prop's and these mock props.
Well where are we going to have.
We're going to have the on request robots which if you remember let's close this and close this so it's
a little bit cleaner.
If you remember main page has the on request robot's function.
So we can't just do the just function here which we've seen before with mocking.
So we're just saying that this is just this simple function.
Don't worry about actually doing the API call.
We'll say that robots is an empty array.
That search field is going to be an empty string and that is pending will be set to false.
And then finally because we have this for each or before each We're going to say that the rapper is
going to equal the shallow
rendered main page and this main page again just like we did in our apt.
Yes can just received the props.
That is the mock props.
So this is going to receive all these properties just like we did in apt.
Yes.
See that ivory here.
All right.
So let's say if you're going to go back to running NPM test and we have a few errors because well that's
not semi-colon that's comma.
My arch nemesis the comma and we get an error saying that our test suites must contain one test because
we haven't read one yet.
We just wrote the before each.
Now let's start off with the basics.
The it renders main page without crashing and we'll say that while we can use our favorite test tool
snapshot testing we can just say expect wrapper because now we have access to this wrapper that is shallow
rendered because before each is going to run before this test and I'll say to match the snapshot.
I love how easy this is let's save.
And what did I mess up here.
Wow.
I am terrible writing commas.
All right there you go.
You must be just laughing at me right now with all the commas that I miss while I code.
But hey we're all human here we all make mistakes.
I don't think there's ever a perfect developer that doesn't make mistakes while coding.
If there are.
Well I'm very jealous of them.
All right.
Let's test another thing let's say that I wanted to make sure that it filters the robots correctly.
So I'll say it filter's robots correctly.
And I'm just going to say that in here we expect the rapper and how do we do this.
If we go to main page da J.S.
we have filter robots in here but that's happening in the render function.
So let's just clean this up and say that we have the filter robots and this filter robots will receive
the robots and it's going to almost make it or Nera function
and we can just grab this
and just return
our filtered robots.
We're going to need the search field here song and say this dot props dot search field to lowercase.
And now within here we can just say that filter robots is coming from this dot filter robots.
Let's just make sure this runs.
I'm going to go back and run NPM start
and it looks like I made a mistake somewhere here.
We need to actually pass down the robot self or say it's going to receive the robots or we can even
do this up over here for analysis leave it like that and make sure we have our naming correct here.
Filter robots Let's go back.
All right it's still working.
So now that I've made this a little bit cleaner in our render function and let's just remove the search
field from your merry go how can I actually test this.
We can now just simply test this method on the main page class well we can just now use the instance
property that comes with enzyme.
And now this instance is going to give us access to all the methods that main page has including folder
robots.
So let's say in our test I'm going to move this around I'm going to say Dot filter robots is going to
run filter robots with let's say an empty array.
And we expect that to equal an empty array.
So let's save and run NPM start or NPM test.
We have a failed test.
And I made a little bit of a mistake here.
The xpect should be around this entire thing.
We want to expect that the filter robots rants and we wanted to equal the empty array.
Let's save hurt.
Everything is passing.
But let's test other cases because while this is most likely not going to be the case let's say that
this time around in this statement only even though we're getting the before each and we have access
to the wrapper this time around we want to have a special case where the mock props is going to have
a search field of a.
And here we have a robot that is let's say Id three with a name of John and email Wolf relieve user
name out of it for now John at gmail dot com.
Let's save this and create a new xpect statement.
Now
and just for this test we're going to use a different wrapper so lazy to say a wrapper with an I know
this is not the cleanest but trying to illustrate a point here so bear with me.
So let's do mock props.
Two mock props too.
And this is going to be a rapper too.
So let's say if rapper to save and assess filter's robots correctly and you know what I just realized
I think a better way for us to do filter robots for now at least is we can forget about the props and
we can just do this dot this dot prop's robots.
So going back here we can now remove the arrays so it just looks a little bit cleaner.
And let's make this test pass.
We get a bit of an error here because we need to do Konst wrapper too because Rapparee is not defined.
Remember we have to define it and our tests pass because our search field is a.
And we only have robots with John and John Ajimobi.
But if I changed this to John O-ho it fails because we expected to equal the actual robots with John
in.
For now we can just say that we expect this array to be returned and I'm going to remove the first one.
Let's save
go and have extra.
Blart brackets here.
Again this is good.
Our tests are failing and we're working towards passing them.
All right and now we know that filter's robots correctly is working.